OK, so the next step for us is to create the user profile in Firestorm.
OK, so I'm going to replace this comment here with a call to a function create.
We're going to call this a function, create or update profile.
OK, because we're going to call it from different parts of our application and we want to be able to
not only create the user, but also updated since we require the same data.
And here, the only data that we have at the moment is the user name, and that's going to be username
equals username.
OK, the username that we pass to our own sign up call.
OK, so we have our create or update user profile is gone ahead and create that function.
That's going to be a private function.
We cannot call it from outside, create or update user profile.
And this will take several parameters.
So first of all.
Name of type string equals normal by default.
User name of type string equals null by default.
What else do we need?
We need bio of type string equals node by default and we need the image you rl.
Of type string.
Equals no by default, OK, so this is our function, and that has solved our problem here.
OK, so for this create or update, basically what we need to do is we need to retrieve all the user
information, create a user object of the type of user data and then store that data in the database
if it doesn't exist and if it exists, we just need to update that data.
OK, so let's go ahead and do that first.
Val UID.
So the user ID is going to be US dot current user.
Don't you?
So this is the user that is given to us by authentication.
Now we're going to have user data is going to be user data class.
OK, we're going to instantiate that, then we're going to pass all the parameters.
So user I.D. equals you.
Then we have name equals.
So either our name is not is not null or in case it is, no, we're going to use the user data from
the parameter that we defined here at the top.
User data dot value question mark.
Dot name.
OK, so either we get some parameters passed here or if not, we just use the ones we already have in
our app, in our view.
Keep in mind that now we are calling this when we first register a user, but later on we will already
have some information for our user.
And if we don't pass the name, we need to keep that information available.
OK, we don't want to rewrite it to a normal value.
OK, so that is the name we're going to do the same for user name is going to be user name, question
mark colon user name data, user data dot value dot user name.
OK.
Same for bio is going to be bio Elvis, operator, user data dot value dot bio.
That's the bio we have, image you URL is going to be image URL.
Elvis operator user data dot value question mark dot image URL.
And finally, we have following now following will be updated in a different way since it is a list.
So we're simply going to take the value that is in the user data user data that value dot following.
OK, so this is our data structure.
Now what we need to do is we need to check, first of all, do we have a user ID if we have a user I.D.,
do we have an existing user in the database in which case we simply need to update the information or
if we don't and we need to create a new user?
OK, so let's go ahead and do that.
First of all, we need to check you ID.
Question mark.
Let.
OK, now we're going to set the in-progress flag to true.
So in progress, those value equals true.
Then we're going to say DB Dot Collection users, we're going to try to retrieve the document with you
ID.
OK, you ID.
Or we can simply say it, OK, let's put it UID for clarity.
So you I.D. OK, we have our I.D. here.
Now we know this is not new, so we're going to this is going to succeed, either we retrieve anything
or we don't don't get.
And here we're going to add on success listener.
OK, now if it's not exists.
Now, if it exists, then what do we want to do?
We want to update that reference with the new data, so we're going to say it's those reference Dot
update user data.
So the one we created here user data dot to map this is where the map comes in, because if we want
to update, we need to pass a map to this function.
Don't add on success, listener.
So if it is successful, then what can we do?
This dot user data dot value equals user data.
And then we said the in-progress flag don't value equals false.
So this is for the add on success listener add on failure listener here we have handle exception it
and cannot update user.
And then in progress.
The value is going to be false.
OK, now this is the case where it exists else, if it doesn't exist, we can say DB the collection.
Users.
Dot document.
And here we pass the you.
So the ID of our user dot set.
And here we have our user data.
OK.
And then after that, we need to once this has completed, we need to retrieve that user data so we
can say we can have a function, get user data.
Of UUID.
This function needs to be created, so let's just put it in place now without any functionality.
Private val and private fun get user data of UUID of type string.
OK, so that's all for now, we don't implement this now, we just want to see the functionality here.
One thing that I forgot, I think, is we have an unsuccessful listener, but we don't have an on failure
listener.
So let's add that that's really simple to to do exception.
And we simply handle exception.
And in case of a failure, we handle exception.
And cannot create user, and we want to set in progress that value because false.
Also, don't forget to set it here in the other branch of the if in progress, dot value equals false.
I think that's it, so on this, I've made a mistake that should create both the let me see both the
authentication user and the Firestorm user.
So let's try it out.
I'm going to run this code and let's see what happens.
OK, so let's create a username, John.
An email, John, at Gmail dot com.
I'm not going to test the error messages because we've tested that in the previous video.
So let's go ahead and sign up.
And I don't think there's any error messages that come up.
So let's have a look in the backend API authentication.
We have a new user, John and Gmail, and let's check the user creation.
We have users, we have an element in the collection and we have our user I.D. and user name.
So username is correct.
User ID is the same user ID that we have for this document.
So this is going to be quite important because we reference this ID later on in our code.
But for now, I think it's all looking really good.
We already have user creation and we have error message handling.
OK.
What I would like to do in the next video is put in place this get user data because this is going to
be quite important.
We're going to call it from here, but we're also going to be calling it when we simply start off the
app to check whether the user is signed in or not.
And if it is signed in, then we need to get that user information here.
OK, so we're going to do that in the next video.